---
title: Why We Decided to Raise Our Son Bilingual
layout: post
soundcloud-url: 271477793
published: true
author: "Breaking Español"
---
We have a 10 month old son, Jack. He has been the light of our life since he’s joined us here on planet Earth. Naturally, since we want everyone to gain a greater compassion for others by learning a new language, we decided to raise him bilingual.
We have no doubt Jack will grow up being able to better communicate with other kids as a result of these efforts. In this episode we share the steps we’re taking to help our son learn both Spanish and English at the same time. Enjoy!

## Tips

* We decided while pregnant since we were already learning Spanish
* [Bilingual Types: Coordinate vs Compound](https://www.onehourtranslation.com/translation/blog/being-bilingual-types-bilingualism)
* Our son will have no dividing line between English and Spanish in his brain since he's learning them both at the same time
* Our goal is to help our son have compassion for other cultures
* Through our research we've found very little downsides to teaching him two languages at once
* Don't worry about using Spanglish, but try to separate your languages as much as possible
* If a noun ends in "a" it is generally feminine, which you would use “la” as the pronoun
* Having a nanny has been incredibly helpful in teaching our son Spanish and us!
* Asking for Spanish books for our baby shower has helped us a lot
* Seek out places to speak Spanish
* Host a Spanish night with friends

## Spanish Words
* Quires = You form of Want = Do you want?
* Cansado = Tired
* Casado = Married
* Estoy Cansado/a = I am tired
* La mesa = The table
* El programa = The program
* Arriba = Up
* Abajo = Down
* Zapeta = Diaper
* El Sofa = The sofa / couch

## Resources
* [care.com](http://breakingespanol.com/3/care.com)
* Cri Cri Radio on Pandora.com (Spanish children's music)
* Bob Zoom en Español (children's nursery rhymes in Spanish)
