---
title: "Comida de Chile"
layout: post
published: true
soundcloud-url: 316589371
youtube: "O_xzrpuM3rM"
author: "Breaking Español"
---
This episode is all about food. Specifically food from Santiago, Chile. Jennie's recent trip to Chile gave her many opportunities to eat the local fare and enjoy the culture. In this episode she shares all about her cooking class, the markets, and challenges of a foreign language menu.

¡Gracias por Escuchar!

<div id="flickrembed"></div><small style="display: block; text-align: center; margin: 0 auto;">Powered by <a href="https://flickrembed.com">flickr embed</a>.</small>

<script src="//flickrembed.com/embed_v2.js.php?source=flickr&layout=responsive&input=www.flickr.com/photos/147940691@N05/albums/72157682218330756&sort=2&by=album&theme=default&scale=fill&skin=default&id=58e7cf4a62622"></script>

## Palabras Españolas (Spanish Words)
- Cena = Dinner
- Platos = Plates / Courses
- Porciones = Portions
- Pequeno = Little
- Comida = Food
- Tengo celoso = I'm jealous
- Crudo de res = Raw beef
- Pulpo = Octopus
- Palta = Avacado
- Boca = Mouth
- Nariz = Nose
- Helado = Ice cream
- Alfajores = Chilean treat
-

## Recipes
Recipes from Uncorked cooking class in Santiago, Chile:

_Mango Sour recipe_

3 parts Isoc
1 part Mango puree
1 shot of lemon juice
Egg white (2 tablespoons per person)
Ice
Angostura bitter for decoration

Pour the Pisco, mango puree, lemon juice, simple syrup and egg white in a cocktail shaker and shake vigorously for 1 minute. A froth from the egg white should form. Add 4 ice cubes and shake again until it gets cold.

Serve on a champagne. Pour 2 drops of angostura bitters on the top.

_Churrascos_

A traditional Chilean stovetop bread, simple to prepare and delicious. Prepare and eat immediately as the bread gets hard once cold.

1 cup of flour
2 Tbsp Lard
Warm water
1 tsp salt
1 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp yeast

_Perbre Chilean Salsa_

1 tomato
1 green chile
Olive oil to taste
Salt to taste
1 shot of white vinegar
1/2 clove of garlic
Black pepper to taste
Cumin to taste
Oregano to taste
1 shot of white wine
2 tsp coriander
Merquén to taste (chilean spice)
2 Tbsp Chilean paste
1/2 white or red onion

Chop the tomatoes, onion, green chili. Mince the garlic and cut the coriander. Mix together, season the pebre with white wine, olive oil, spices and paste, white vinegar. Adjust the flavor to your liking with salt and pepper.

[Uncorked cooking class](http://www.santiagocookingclass.com/) - Amazing experience starting at the markets and then taking the ingredients to cook traditional Chilean dishes in Santiago, Chile.

[Boca Nariz](https://www.tripadvisor.com/Restaurant_Review-g294305-d3192360-Reviews-Bocanariz-Santiago_Santiago_Metropolitan_Region.html) - Best empanadas and wine tasting. It’s like traveling through Chilean wine country and experiencing all the styles of wine. They have a ton of flights of wine to choose from and you can even out together your own. We recommend making a reservation!
